java c ECON-GA 1005 Macroeconomics (MA) PROBLEM SET n. 7 Deadline: Monday, Nov 18 - 4:00pm Submit a clear legible scan of your solution through Brightspace’s Assignments before 4pm next Monday Consider a full general equilibrium model of the economy with no uncertainty, perfectly competitive markets, inelastic labor supply. The representative household’s preferences are given by ∑∞t = 0βtu(ct), with β ≡ 1⁄(1 + ρ) and utility function u(ct) = log ct. The production function (with lt = 1 at all t) has the form. yt = f(kt) = Akt, with A constant. Assume 5 > δ + ρ. [In class we discussed how this could be the reduced form. of a production function with either human capital accumulation or learning-by-doing. Here we ignore the reasons behind the linearity in capital and focus on characterizing the dynamics implied by this production function] Capital accumulation depends on investment It (net of depreciation): kt+1 = It + (1 − δ)kt. The resource constraint for the economy is ct + It = yt.

Write the equilibrium dynamical system (the two dynamic equations) for c and k. [You don’t need to show all the maximization problems and the derivations; just write the two equations first for general functions f(k) and u(c), and then for these specific production function and utility function]
Construct the phase diagram:
Take the first equation and ask where c is stationary, growing or declining. What does the equation tell you about the growth rate of consumption?
Take the second equation and ask where k is stationary, growing or declining.
Is there a steady state for c and k (apart from the origin)?
We have seen in class that if the levels of the variables do not reach a steady state, in the long run the economy may follow a balanced growth path (BGP), defined as a path along which c代 写ECON-GA 1005 Macroeconomics (MA) PROBLEM SET n. 7Java 代做程序编程语言 and k (as well as output y) grow at constant rates. Try to characterize a balanced growth path for this economy:
First, show that a BGP exists: i.e. show that there is a constant growth rate for k and for c such that the two equilibrium conditions are satisfied, and y also grows at a constant rate. [Hint: you know already what c is doing from the first equation; now use the dynamic equation for capital to look at kt+1/kt and argue about what the growth rate of k must be to have a BGP; then use the production function to argue about the growth rate of y.]
What is the BGP growth rate of y, k and c? What is the ratio c/k along the BGP? Show in the phase diagram what the BGP equilibrium path looks like. [If you know what the ratio c/k is along the BGP, you can draw the BGP path in the (c, k) graph]
Finally, comment very briefly on the implications of this model for long-run growth.
Is there persistent long-run growth in per capita income? Why? What is the crucial difference with the standard neoclassical growth model that explains the different implication for long-run growth?
Given an arbitrary initial condition k0, does the economy have to go through a transitional dynamics before it settles on a balanced growth path or is it possible for the economy to be from the initial period on the BGP? [You don’t need to solve the system or prove that the economy will start immediately on the BGP;just think why in the standard model we have a transition and why we may not need it here.]
Optional: try to prove that the economy will start immediately on the BGP [Use the expression for the growth rate of k from the dynamic equation for k; check what happens next if you start with % above or below the BGP; would you converge to the BGP or not?]


   加QQ codinghelp Email: cscholary@gmail.com
